---
title: 2019 Bioinformatics (BIOL:4213) at the University of Iowa
author: Bin He & Jan Fassler
date: 2019-08-13
---

This is the course project repository for the BIOL:4213 Bioinformatics course. It is designed for graduate students and senior undergraduates with research experience to learn a wide range of bioinformatics techniques. Topics include, but are not limited to, gene annotation, protein family homology searches, BLAST, phylogenetics, next-gen sequencing analysis, regulatory genomics, gene network analysis. This course is light on programming, but heavy on biological understanding and the know-how to utilize existing, state-of-the-art tools to analyze biological data. The course has two parallel versions. The 2 semester hour (s.h.) version is for students who want to learn about the current state of bioinformatic approaches but do not need to apply them. Students in this course only takes a 2hr lecture/workshop per week. The 4 s.h. version emphasizes application. Students in this latter version will additionally have 2 hours per week to work on a project. The theme of this year's projects are the recently sequenced human fungal pathogen _Candida auris_, which have garnered great attention from the media due to its multi-drug resistance and the associated high mortality rate. The students will form tables of four to five and each table will choose a theme related to the biology of this organism. Each student then chooses a protein family and will study their phylogenetic distribution and structural features pertaining to the biological property of the organism.
